Service Object Example

The following is an example of a Service object definition. This represents the declarative method to define an object, and can serve as a template for a much more complex Service definition manifest if desired. By omitting the Service type from the definition manifest, we create the default service type, the ClusterIP type (the ClusterIP Service type will be covered in an upcoming lesson).

apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: frontend-svc
spec:
  selector:
    app: frontend
  ports:
  - protocol: TCP
    port: 80
    targetPort: 5000

The above definition manifest, if stored by a frontend-svc.yaml file, is loaded into the cluster to set up the necessary routes and rules to send traffic to the Pod replicas of the earlier defined frontend Deployment. While create is exemplified below, advanced Kubernetes practitioners may opt to use apply instead:

$ kubectl create -f frontend-svc.yaml

Imperatively, we can use a direct method to expose the Deploymen’s Pods. The following is a multi-line command that should be selected in its entirety for copy/paste (including the backslash character “\”):

$ kubectl expose deploy frontend --name=frontend-svc \
--port=80 --target-port=5000

The expose command parses the referenced Deployment object to extract valuable pairing details such as Name, Label, Selector, and containerPort to populate these values in the Service object. However, especially in cases when the Service port and Service targetPort values are expected to be distinct (80 and 5000 respectively), it is best to explicitly supply these values with the expose command. In addition, we decided to change the name of the Service with the name option (the default behavior is for the Service object to inherit the exposed Deployment’s name frontend).

Another imperative method to set up the same Service from above is through the create service command. The rather complex command below first sets up a frontend Service with frontend Label and frontend Selector in dry-run mode, it updates the Service name to frontend-svc and then loads the definition in the cluster. The following multi-line command should be selected in its entirety for copy/paste (including the backslash character “\”):

$ kubectl create service clusterip frontend \
--tcp=80:5000 --dry-run=client -o yaml \
| sed 's/name: frontend/name: frontend-svc/g' \
| kubectl apply -f -

In this example, we are creating a frontend-svc Service by selecting all the Pods that have the Label key=app set to value=frontend. By default, each Service receives an IP address routable only inside the cluster, known as ClusterIP. In our example, we have 172.17.0.4 and 172.17.0.5 as ClusterIPs assigned to our frontend-svc and db-svc Services, respectively.

 

Accessing the Pods Using Service Object

Accessing the Pods Using Service Object

 

The user/client now connects to a Service via its ClusterIP, which forwards traffic to one of the Pods attached to it. A Service provides load balancing by default while selecting the Pods for traffic forwarding.

While the Service forwards traffic to Pods, we can select the targetPort on the Pod which receives the traffic. In our example, the frontend-svc Service receives requests from the user/client on port: 80 and then forwards these requests to one of the attached Pods on the targetPort: 5000. If the targetPort is not defined explicitly, then traffic will be forwarded to Pods on the port on which the Service receives traffic - in this case the targetPort implicitly is assigned the value of the port. It is very important to ensure that the value of the targetPort, which is 5000 in this example, matches the value of the containerPort property of the Pod spec section.

A logical set of a Pod's IP address, along with the targetPort is referred to as a Service endpoint. In our example, the frontend-svc Service has 3 endpoints: 10.0.1.3:5000, 10.0.1.4:5000, and 10.0.1.5:5000 respectively. Endpoints are created and managed automatically by the Service, not by the Kubernetes cluster administrators or developers.

The Service and associated endpoints can be listed with:

$ kubectl get service,endpoints frontend-svc
$ kubectl get svc,ep frontend-svc