Traffic Policies

The kube-proxy node agent together with the iptables implement the load-balancing mechanism of the Service when traffic is being routed to the application Endpoints. Due to restricting characteristics of the iptables this load-balancing is random by default. This means that the Endpoint Pod to receive the request forwarded by the Service will be randomly selected out of many replicas. This mechanism does not guarantee that the selected receiving Pod is the closest or even on the same node as the requester, therefore not the most efficient mechanism. Since this is the iptables supported load-balancing mechanism, if we desire better outcomes, we would need to take advantage of traffic policies.

Traffic policies allow users to instruct the kube-proxy on the context of the traffic routing. The two options are Cluster and Local:

    The Cluster option allows kube-proxy to target all ready Endpoints of the Service in the load-balancing process. This is the default behavior of the Service even when the traffic policy property is not explicitly declared.
    The Local option, however, isolates the load-balancing process to only include the Endpoints of the Service located on the same node as the requester Pod, or perhaps the node that captured inbound external traffic on its NodePort (the NodePort Service type will be covered in an upcoming lesson). While this sounds like an ideal option, it does have a shortcoming - if the Service does not have a ready Endpoint on the node where the requester Pod is running, the Service will not route the request to Endpoints on other nodes to satisfy the request because it will be dropped by kube-proxy.

Both the Cluster and Local options are available for requests generated internally from within the cluster, or externally from applications and clients running outside the cluster. The Service definition manifest below defines both internal and external Local traffic policies. Both are optional settings, and can be used independent of each other, where one can be defined without the other (either internal or external policy).

apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: frontend-svc
spec:
  selector:
    app: frontend
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 5000
  internalTrafficPolicy: Local
  externalTrafficPolicy: Local